Open source.

The first time I got a job developing software full-time I was 24 years old.  I
had learned how to write html and css by asking a couple of friends a bunch of
questions, reading some books they gave me, and playing around at night and on
weekends.  Code was mostly a mystery to me.

Most people at my new company came in around 9, but one guy and I normally got
their a bit early and would grab coffee at the 7-11 across the street before
diving into the day.  It was my first week and during one of these sessions I
asked the guy next to me what he was up to that morning.

"I found a bug in jquery last night, so I was going to submit a patch to fix
it. Then back to working on the scheduler."

At that point in my life - I assumed any publicly released code was perfect,
beautiful, and free of bugs or errors.  The image I had in my head for people
who built something like jquery was essentially a group of wizards that weren't
actually human. I can't express how much it melted my brain that this guy
sitting next to me was submitting a "patch" that would "fix a bug he found."

"I'm so in over my head."

Over the next few months we chatted at great length about open-source. When I
say "we chatted" I mostly mean I asked him questions and he answered them. One
day he told me that it was a goal of his to maintain an important open-source
project within three years time. This sounded pretty cool to me. So I made a
similar goal: Be making contributions to an open-source project by the time I
was 27.

...

Three years later I was working at a different company. We hired a new engineer
- and upon arrival he invited us all out to drinks. I was familiar with his
open source work and told him I was very jealous and had wanted to 'get into
open source' for a while.

"What do you want to do?"

I told him about my skillset and he said "oh yeah there are tons of things you
could do. I'll put you in touch with some people."

Soon after that talk I got an email about making a logo for sqoop. An open
source thing about databases. Mind you I know nothing about databases. But I did
understand how to make a logo. I stayed up late for a few nights and put a
bunch of ideas together. The guy that I was working with picked out one that he
liked and it officially became my first foray into contributing to open source.

...







